For the proteomics data analysis the raw output files of FragPipe (protein.tsv files) were processed using the R programming environment (ISBN 3-900051-07-0). Initial data processing included filtering out contaminants and reverse proteins. Only proteins quantified with at least 2 razor peptides (Razor.Peptides >= 2) were considered for further analysis. 8149 proteins passed the quality control filters. In order to correct for technical variability, batch effects were removed using the 'removeBatchEffect' function of the limma package (PMID: 25605792) on the log2 transformed raw TMT reporter ion intensities ('channel' columns). Subsequently, normalization was performed using the 'normalizeVSN' function of the limma package (VSN - variance stabilization normalization - PMID: 12169536). For visualization, proteins abundances were normalized to the control condition by dividing by the median of control replicates ('ctrl' column). These control ratios were used for clustering and heatmap display. Differential expression analysis was performed using the moderated t-test provided by the limma package (PMID: 25605792). The model accounted for replicate information by including it as a factor in the design matrix passed to the 'lmFit' function. Proteins were annotated as hits if they had a false discovery rate (FDR) below 0.05 and an absolute fold change greater than 1.5. Proteins were considered candidates if they had an FDR below 0.2 and an absolute fold change greater than 1.5. Clustering with all hit proteins based on the median protein abundances normalized by median of control condition was conducted to identify groups of proteins similar patterns across conditions. The 'kmeans' method was employed, using Euclidean distance as the distance metric and 'ward.D2' linkage for hierarchical clustering. The optimal number of clusters (6) was determined by selecting the number with the highest average silhouette width, indicating the best-defined cluster structure. Gene ontology (GO) enrichment analysis was performed using the 'compareCluster' function of the 'clusterProfiler' package (PMID: 22455463), which assesses over-representation of GO terms in the dataset relative to the background gene set. Enrichment was conducted for the following GO categories: Cellular Component (CC), Molecular Function (MF), and Biological Process (BP). The analysis was performed using 'org.Hs.eg.db' as the reference database. The odds ratio ('odds_ratio') for each GO term was calculated by comparing the proportion of genes associated with that term in the dataset ('GeneRatio') to the proportion in the background set ('BgRatio'). An odds ratio greater than 1 indicates that the GO term is enriched in the dataset compared to the expected background.
